BYOC public preview docs for Azure/AWS/GCP (#23182)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/cockroachcloud/byoc-gcp-deployment.md

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
The BYOC {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment option is currently in [Preview]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Prerequisites

{% include cockroachcloud/byoc/byoc-common-prerequisites.md %}

## Step 1. Create a new GCP project

Provision a fresh **GCP project** with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your Cockroach {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The project configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this project, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-Cockroach Cloud resources. This project can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.

The following requirements apply to the GCP project used for your BYOC deployment:
- The project ID **must not** begin with the reserved prefix `crl-`.
- [Enable](https://docs.cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/openapi/enable-api) the Service Usage API and the Cloud Resource Manager APIs for this project. Cockroach Labs will enable additional APIs as needed, but these two must be initialized first.

> ## Step 2. Configure an intermediate service account for Cockroach Labs

Reviewer: We're missing the lookup of the CRL-owned GCP intermediate service account, similar to the IAM user in AWS. They should look it up using the public API method just like for AWS, and grant two roles on it.

Author: Added a step similar to what I wrote for AWS.

What's the difference from a user's perspective between the CRL-owned intermediate service account and the customer-created intermediate service account? Should be able to say, at a high level, why they're creating each one and giving them their respective roles (but not in so much depth that the customer gets the idea to exclude some roles)

---
title: Prepare a CockroachDB Cloud BYOC Deployment in Google Cloud Platform
summary: Prepare a Google Cloud Platform account to host a BYOC deployment of CockroachDB
toc: true
keywords: deployment, byoc
---

This page describes how to prepare a cloud service account to host a [BYOC deployment]({% link cockroachcloud/byoc-overview.md %}) of CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} {{ site.data.products.advanced }} in Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> The BYOC {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment option is currently in [Preview]({% link {{ site.current_cloud_version }}/cockroachdb-feature-availability.md %}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{% include feature-phases/preview.md %}
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Prerequisites

{% include cockroachcloud/byoc/byoc-common-prerequisites.md %}

- Create an [API service account]({% link cockroachcloud/managing-access.md %}#create-api-keys) to use the [{{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}) with your {{ site.data.products.cloud }} organization.

## Step 1. Create a new GCP project

> Provision a fresh **GCP project** with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your Cockroach {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The project configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this project, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-Cockroach Cloud resources. This project can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provision a fresh **GCP project** with no existing infrastructure, dedicated to your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} deployment. The project configuration for BYOC requires you to grant Cockroach Labs permissions to access and modify resources in this project, so this step is necessary to isolate these permissions from non-CockroachDB Cloud resources. This project can be reused for multiple CockroachDB clusters.
```

The following requirements apply to the GCP project used for your BYOC deployment:

- The project ID **must not** begin with the reserved prefix `crl-`.
- [Enable](https://docs.cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/openapi/enable-api) the Service Usage API and the Cloud Resource Manager APIs for this project. Cockroach Labs will enable additional APIs as needed, but these two must be initialized first.

## Step 2. Grant permissions to the Cockroach Labs service account

> Cockroach Labs uses cross-account service account impersonation to provision and manage resources in your GCP project. This requires two service accounts:

Reviewer 2: I take it that this is referring to a GCP service account, not a CockroachDB service account? Might want to specify that (and potentially link to a GCP page about that). I'm so used to seeing "Service Account" in these docs that I initially assumed it meant a CRDB service account.

> - A service account owned by Cockroach Labs which must be granted roles to view and access service accounts in your GCP project.

Reviewer 2: Could maybe link to this, to help clarify the difference: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/managing-access.html#manage-service-accounts

Author: Both of these are GCP service accounts, neither is a CRDB service account. The *This requires two GCP service accounts* line is my attempt at clarifying that, I'm not sure what more I can do

- An intermediary service account in your GCP project which must be granted roles to create and manage infrasturcture. This service account is the target used by Cockroach Labs for cross-account impersonation, and you specify this service account when creating CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} clusters in this organization.

In this step, use the [{{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}) to collect the email address of the Cockroach Labs service account and grant it the necessary roles.

Send a `GET` request to the `/v1/organization` endpoint of the [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} API](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/api/cloud/v1.html#get-/api/v1/organization) similar to the following example:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ shell
curl --request GET \
  --url https://cockroachlabs.cloud/api/v1/organization \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer {secret_key}'
~~~

> In the response, the value of `cockroach_cloud_service_principals.gcp.service_account_email` is the Cockroach Labs service account:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the response, the value of `cockroach_cloud_service_principals.gcp.service_account_email` is the email associated with the Cockroach Labs service account:
```
or something like that

~~~ json
{
  "cockroach_cloud_service_principals": {
    "gcp": {

>       "service_account_email": "example@email.com"

Reviewer 2: I don't think that this email address actually gets used, does it? If it's not, I might just remove this bit entirely, as then you won't have to worry about differentiating between the two email addresses later.

Author: As discussed offline, it does - it's the service account that you grant the token creator/view service accounts roles later in this step

    }
  }
}
~~~

Grant this service account the following roles in the GCP IAM Console:

- `Service Account Token Creator (roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator)`
- `View Service Accounts (roles/iam.serviceAccountViewer)`

## Step 3. Configure the intermediate service account

In this step, create the intermediate service account in your GCP project and grant it the necessary roles in your GCP project.

Follow these steps to create the intermediate service account:

1. Open the GCP IAM Console.

> 2. Create a new service account. The account's name is arbitrary and can be whatever you want, but be sure to note down the email address of the account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a new service account. You can choose any name for this account. Be sure to note down the email address of the account.
```

Reviewer 2: Does this noted-down email ever get used? Is it supposed to be the same as the email from step 2? Because it's easy to confuse these two instances of "note the email address" which could be a problem when it gets used in step 4.

Author: Yes. The Cockroach Labs service account is granted the two Service Account roles in the same step where you run the API call to get the email of that account. The email address associated with the _intermediate service account_, which is the one created in this step, is the one you need to provide in the console or API when you want to create a cluster in this BYOC organization.

Author: Clarifying this a bit above, where we explain what these two service accounts are

    - `Role Administrator (roles/iam.roleAdmin)`
    - `Service Account Admin (roles/iam.serviceAccountAdmin)`
    - `Service Account Key Admin (roles/iam.serviceAccountKeyAdmin)`
    - `Service Account Token Creator (roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator)`
    - `Service Account User (roles/iam.serviceAccountUser)`
    - `Logs Configuration Writer (roles/logging.configWriter)`
    - `Project IAM Admin (roles/resourcemanager.projectIamAdmin)`
    - `Project Mover (roles/resourcemanager.projectMover)`
    - `Service Usage Admin (roles/serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin)`
    - `Storage Admin (roles/storage.admin)`

## Step 4. Create the CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} cluster

In BYOC deployments, CockroachDB clusters can be deployed in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console or with the [{{ site.data.products.cloud }} API]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}).

### Create a cluster with the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} Console

Follow these steps to create a CockroachDB cluster in the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} console:

1. Open the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} and select the organization that has been enabled for BYOC.

> 1. Click **Create cluster**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Create cluster**.
```

> 1. Under **Select a plan**, click **{{ site.data.products.advanced }}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under **Select a plan**, click **{{ site.data.products.advanced }}**.
```

1. Under **Cloud & Regions**, click **Bring Your Own Cloud** and select Google Cloud.

> 1. Under **Cloud account**, click **Select your cloud account > Add new cloud account**. Enter the service account email associated with the intermediate service account you created, *not* the email address of the Cockroach Labs service account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under **Cloud account**, click **Select your cloud account > Add new cloud account**. Enter the service account email associated with the intermediate service account you created, **not** the email address of the Cockroach Labs service account.
```
Bold for emphasis, italics for introducing a new phrase, I believe?

Author: Not currently in the style guide, and because we're already using bold in this line to describe UI elements I don't want to overload bold usage.

1. Follow the rest of the **Create Cluster** steps to configure your cluster's regions, capacity, and features as desired. Read the [Plan a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.advanced}} Cluster]({% link cockroachcloud/plan-your-cluster-advanced.md %}) documentation for more details.

### Create a cluster with the {{ site.data.products.cloud }} API

Send a `POST` request to the the `/v1/clusters` endpoint to [create a CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.cloud }} {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster]({% link cockroachcloud/cloud-api.md %}#create-an-advanced-cluster).

> The following example request creates a 3-node {{ site.data.products.advanced }} cluster in the `us-east1` region, specifying the `service_account_email` associated with the intermediate service account you created:

Reviewer 2: I'd repeat that same clarification here. I'd also maybe avoid using the `service_account_email` string in this bit of text, as I so associate it with the snippet from Step 2 that I immediately associate it with the CRL service account email address.

Author: We do need to call out the field by name, but reworded to clarify
